ChatGPT



if I wanted to write a program to do a dump of all the available data I have in an azure subscription, would that be possible? I'm really looking to find a way to do a surface scan of as much as possible, largely for things like VMs, AKS clusters, storage accounts etc... The idea is try and build a web interface on top of it to give a snapshot and view of everything in a custom way. Other things like upcoming deprecations, machines powered off longer than 30 days etc etc. Ideally it's a way to get as much data as possible, even through multiple passes, and either download via az cli commands, azure graph, or other methods. Does that make sense? I want to get as much data as possible on as many planes and then construct a dashboard around it. We will likely put into a sqlite database initially to help with queries later. Please let me know how much value you think this would provide and how feasible it is to try and do a big scrape like this.

Yes, it makes sense. I’ll ground this in the current Azure API surface and then map it into a practical scrape/dashboard design, including where the “big dump” approach works well and where it gets messy.
I’ve already found one key design constraint: Resource Graph is the right first pass for inventory, but it is not a complete source of truth for data-plane content or long-term state history. The dashboard should be snapshot-based rather than a one-off export.
Thought for 1m 49s
Yes — this makes complete sense, and I think it is very feasible. I would frame it as a cloud asset inventory + governance snapshot system, not a one-time “scrape”.
The highest-value approach is:

Use Azure Resource Graph as the broad first pass
Use Azure Resource Manager / provider APIs for deep per-service enrichment
Use Activity Log, Resource Health, Service Health, Advisor, Policy, Cost APIs, and Monitor metrics for operational context
Store raw snapshots plus normalized facts in SQLite
Build rules on top: stale VMs, AKS version risk, missing tags, public exposure, upcoming retirements, cost waste, etc.
Azure Resource Graph is specifically designed for querying resources at scale across subscriptions, supports KQL, and is available through Azure CLI, PowerShell, and REST API. It is the right “surface scan” layer for VMs, AKS clusters, storage accounts, networks, databases, tags, locations, SKUs, identities, role assignments, policy state, Advisor recommendations, Security resources, Service Health, and more.
My feasibility verdict
Control-plane inventory: very feasible.
You can get a huge amount of useful Azure metadata without touching workloads: subscriptions, resource groups, resource types, tags, locations, SKUs, configs, role assignments, policy states, Advisor recommendations, Defender/security findings, Service Health events, and current VM power state.
Runtime and historical state: feasible, but you need snapshots.
For example, “VMs powered off longer than 30 days” cannot be answered reliably from a single current dump unless you already have activity logs or exported historical logs. Azure Activity Log is retained for 90 days by default, and Resource Graph Change Analysis is queryable for 14 days, so your system should store its own daily/hourly snapshots from day one. 

Data-plane inventory: feasible but selective.
Azure separates the control plane from the data plane. Reading a storage account resource is different from reading the blobs inside it; a subscription Reader role can see the storage account but not necessarily the underlying blobs.  For storage, I would not enumerate every blob live unless needed. I would use Azure Storage blob inventory reports, which are designed to summarize containers, blobs, snapshots, versions, size, age, encryption status, immutability, legal hold, and related metadata. 

How I would build it
Use a multi-pass collector.
Pass	Source	Purpose
1. Broad inventory	Azure Resource Graph	All visible resources, tags, locations, types, subscriptions, resource groups
2. Typed enrichment	ARM / Azure SDK / REST APIs	VM instance view, AKS details, storage settings, network configs, DB configs
3. Governance	Advisor, Policy, Defender, RBAC	Recommendations, compliance, security posture, role assignments
4. Health and change	Resource Health, Service Health, Activity Log, Change Analysis	Outages, retirements, maintenance, recent changes, deallocations
5. Cost and usage	Cost Management APIs	Daily cost, waste candidates, savings estimates
6. Optional data plane	Blob inventory, AKS Kubernetes API, Key Vault metadata	Deeper asset view where permissions and risk justify it
Resource Graph should be your main starting point, but not your only source. Microsoft notes that Resource Graph may not return exactly the same data as a direct provider GET, because it scrubs PII and uses provider API versions selected by the service. It also returns a maximum of 1,000 records by default, so you need pagination and throttling handling. 
Example useful first-pass queries
All core resources:
Resources
| project id, subscriptionId, resourceGroup, type, name, location, kind, sku, tags, properties
VMs with current power state:
Resources
| where type =~ 'microsoft.compute/virtualmachines'
| project
    id,
    subscriptionId,
    resourceGroup,
    name,
    location,
    vmSize = tostring(properties.hardwareProfile.vmSize),
    osType = tostring(properties.storageProfile.osDisk.osType),
    powerState = tostring(properties.extended.instanceView.powerState.code),
    tags
Microsoft’s own Resource Graph examples show VM power state through properties.extended.instanceView.powerState.code, which is exactly the kind of field you would use for a dashboard. 
AKS clusters plus version enrichment should combine Resource Graph with the AKS REST APIs. The AKS API can list managed clusters in a subscription, and the Kubernetes versions API returns supported versions, supported patch versions, upgrade metadata, capabilities, and preview status. 

Upcoming retirements and deprecations should come from Service Health / Advisor. Service Health Resource Graph data includes service events and impacted resources, and Microsoft’s Service Retirement workbook is specifically intended to provide a centralized resource-level view of service retirements.

Advisor is also worth ingesting because AdvisorResources exposes recommendation state and cost/reliability/security/operational recommendations that you can correlate with your own resource inventory. 

SQLite is a good initial target
I would store both raw JSON and normalized fields. The raw JSON protects you from schema churn; the normalized tables make the dashboard fast.
A simple starting model:

snapshots (
  snapshot_id text primary key,
  collected_at text not null,
  tenant_id text,
  source text not null
);

resources (
  resource_id text primary key,
  subscription_id text,
  resource_group text,
  type text,
  name text,
  location text,
  first_seen text,
  last_seen text,
  deleted_at text,
  latest_hash text
);

resource_snapshots (
  snapshot_id text,
  resource_id text,
  type text,
  raw_json text,
  tags_json text,
  properties_json text,
  power_state text,
  sku text,
  primary key (snapshot_id, resource_id)
);

findings (
  finding_id text primary key,
  snapshot_id text,
  resource_id text,
  category text,
  severity text,
  title text,
  detail text,
  evidence_json text
);

events (
  event_id text primary key,
  source text,
  resource_id text,
  event_time text,
  event_type text,
  raw_json text
);

cost_daily (
  date text,
  resource_id text,
  cost real,
  currency text,
  raw_json text,
  primary key (date, resource_id)
);
For “powered off longer than 30 days”, I would not rely only on Azure’s current state. I would create a derived table like:
resource_state_history (
  resource_id text,
  observed_at text,
  state_name text,
  state_value text,
  primary key (resource_id, observed_at, state_name)
);
Then the rule becomes: “current state is PowerState/deallocated or PowerState/stopped, and earliest continuous observation of that state is older than 30 days.” On the very first run, you can backfill partially from Activity Log if available, but after that your own snapshots become the reliable source.
Main caveats
The biggest caveat is permissions. Resource Graph only returns resources the identity has read access to, and Azure’s control-plane permissions do not automatically grant data-plane permissions. For a production collector, use a managed identity or service principal with carefully scoped Reader-style access, plus explicit data-plane reader roles only where you truly need them. 
The second caveat is throttling and pagination. Resource Graph and ARM APIs are designed for this sort of inventory work, but you need to handle continuation tokens, 429s, retry-after headers, and batching. Resource Graph is throttled as a free service, and ARM has documented request throttling behavior.

The third caveat is not everything lives in one API. Resource Graph is excellent for broad discovery, but provider APIs remain the source of truth for some deep details. For example, VM runtime state can come from VM instance view, AKS version support needs the AKS version API, metrics need Azure Monitor, and detailed cost data should come from Cost Management’s cost details/report APIs. 

How much value would it provide?
I think the value is high, especially if you have more than a handful of subscriptions or more than one team deploying resources.
The biggest wins would be:

Custom estate visibility: one place to see every VM, AKS cluster, storage account, database, public IP, load balancer, identity, role assignment, and tag state.
Operational hygiene: stale VMs, unattached disks, old snapshots, public exposure, missing tags, orphaned resources, noncompliant configs.
Upgrade and retirement awareness: AKS versions, service retirements, health advisories, API/version risk.
Cost intelligence: stopped-but-allocated VMs, underused resources, Advisor savings, old storage, idle public IPs.
Historical drift: what changed, when it changed, and whether the estate is improving or degrading.
The mistake would be trying to “dump absolutely everything” equally. The better design is a broad shallow inventory everywhere, then deep collectors for the resource types that matter most: VMs, disks, NICs, public IPs, AKS, storage, Key Vault, SQL, App Service, Container Apps, Recovery Services, Load Balancers, Application Gateways, role assignments, Advisor, Policy, Defender, Service Health, and costs.
My practical recommendation: build the first version around Resource Graph + SQLite + rule engine + simple web UI, then add service-specific collectors where the dashboard needs more fidelity. That gets you useful signal quickly without turning the project into an endless Azure API mirror.

is this worth doing? could I use it to do some interesting analysis? could you think of things that would be hard to do otherwise

I’d lean “yes, worth doing” if it is treated as an analysis platform rather than just an inventory page. I’ll focus on the analyses that become possible once you have your own historical snapshots and cross-resource joins.
Thought for 21s
Yes — I think this is worth doing if the goal is analysis and historical intelligence, not just “a prettier Azure portal.”
The real value is not the first scrape. The value appears after you have snapshots over time and can join data Azure normally presents in separate places: Resource Graph inventory, Advisor recommendations, Service Health retirements, Policy state, RBAC, cost, activity logs, VM power state, AKS versions, tags, owners, regions, and dependencies.

Azure Resource Graph is explicitly designed for querying resources at scale across subscriptions and tenants, and it supports KQL-style querying and joins across tables, so it is a strong foundation for this kind of system. 

Is it worth doing?
I would say yes, strongly, if any of these are true:
You have multiple subscriptions, multiple teams, lots of long-lived infrastructure, weak tagging discipline, unclear ownership, recurring Azure spend surprises, AKS or VM estates to maintain, or compliance/security questions that require joining multiple Azure data sources.

I would say maybe not if it is a tiny Azure estate with one or two subscriptions and Azure Portal + Cost Management + Defender already answer everything quickly enough.

The best framing is:

Build a private Azure estate intelligence layer.
Not:
Dump Azure into SQLite once.
SQLite is a perfectly good starting point. The important part is to store time-series snapshots, not just the current state.
The interesting analysis comes from joins
A lot of Azure tools answer questions inside their own product boundary. Your tool could answer cross-boundary questions like:
1. “What resources are expensive, risky, and ownerless?”
Join:
Cost Management data
Tags
Subscription/resource group
Advisor recommendations
Security findings
RBAC ownership clues
Azure Cost Management exposes detailed cost and usage data through APIs, while Advisor recommendations are also available through Resource Graph. Those are much more powerful when joined to tags, owners, environments, and resource configuration. 
Example finding:

This untagged VM scale set costs £1,200/month, has no owner tag, is in a non-prod subscription, has public ingress, and has had no meaningful change in 90 days.
That is hard to see in one place natively.
2. “Which powered-off VMs have really been off for 30+ days?”
Azure can tell you current state. Your system can tell you continuous state duration.
That matters because “currently powered off” and “has been powered off for 30 days” are different questions. Azure Activity Log is retained for 90 days by default, and Resource Graph Change Analysis is queryable for 14 days, so your own snapshot history becomes valuable very quickly. 

Example finding:

VM foo-prod-legacy-02 has been deallocated for 47 consecutive days, still has three managed disks attached, and is costing £x/month in disks and backup.
3. “What changed right before cost increased?”
This is a genuinely useful analysis.
You could correlate:

Daily cost deltas
New resources
SKU changes
Disk size changes
AKS node pool scaling
Public IP/NAT/App Gateway additions
Region movement
Backup/storage growth
Native Cost Management can show cost trends, and Resource Graph can show resource state, but the custom value is joining those things into a timeline.
Example:

Cost increased by 38% on 3 June. The likely contributors were: AKS node pool scaled from 3 to 12 nodes, a Premium SSD v2 disk was added, and Log Analytics ingestion doubled.
4. “What is our Azure blast radius for a retirement or deprecation?”
Service Health exposes retirement and impacted-resource information, and Microsoft provides Resource Graph queries for Service Health events and retirements. 
Your dashboard could make this more actionable:

Azure service retirement affects 17 resources. 11 are production, 5 lack owner tags, 3 are internet-facing, and 2 belong to business-critical apps.
That is much more useful than a generic retirement notice.
5. “Which teams are getting better or worse?”
Once you have history, you can score subscriptions, teams, apps, or environments over time.
For example:

Percentage of resources with valid owner tags
Number of stale resources
Number of public endpoints
Number of critical Advisor/security findings
AKS clusters on old versions
Resources without backup
Monthly cost drift
Policy compliance trend
Resource count growth by team
This turns the dashboard into a governance feedback loop.
6. “What is actually connected to what?”
You can infer relationships from Azure IDs:
VM → NIC → subnet → NSG → route table → public IP
AKS → node resource group → VMSS → load balancer → public IP
App Service → plan → VNet integration → private endpoint
Storage account → private endpoints → DNS zones
Disk → VM
Key Vault → private endpoint / access model / RBAC
This is hard to reason about manually in Azure Portal because the information is spread across resource blades.
The powerful view is not “list all resources.” It is:

Show me the dependency graph for this app, including public exposure, ownership, cost, backup, policy, and recent changes.
7. “What is abandoned but still risky?”
Some abandoned things are cheap but risky. Some are expensive but not risky. The interesting cases are both.
Examples:

Public IPs not attached to anything
NSGs allowing broad inbound access but attached to unused subnets
Old snapshots
Disks unattached for 60 days
Storage accounts with public access risk but no recent legitimate activity
Key Vaults with stale access policies
App Services with old runtime stacks
AKS clusters with old Kubernetes versions
Backup vaults protecting deleted or deallocated resources
The value is combining age + state + cost + exposure + owner.
Things that would be hard to do otherwise
These are the big ones.
Long-term change history
Azure gives you some native change and activity history, but the windows are limited unless you export and retain it yourself. Activity Log is retained for 90 days by default, and Resource Graph Change Analysis says changes are queryable for 14 days. 
Your own collector gives you:

“When did this resource first appear?”
“When was this tag removed?”
“How long has this VM been stopped?”
“When did this storage account become public?”
“What changed before the incident?”
“Which subscriptions are drifting fastest?”
That is hard to reconstruct after the fact.
Cross-plane joins
Azure separates control plane, data plane, monitoring, billing, governance, and security. A custom database lets you join across them.
Example:

Give me all internet-facing production resources owned by Team X that have critical recommendations, increased cost this month, and changed in the last seven days.
That is exactly the kind of question that becomes awkward across native tools.
Estate-level scoring
Azure has Advisor scores, Secure Score, Policy compliance, Cost views, etc. But your organisation may care about a custom definition of health.
For example:

Resource hygiene score =
  owner tag present
  environment tag valid
  no critical Advisor recommendation
  no public exposure unless approved
  backup configured where required
  no stale deallocated state
  cost center present
  no upcoming retirement impact
That kind of score is very company-specific.
Finding “unknown unknowns”
The first dump will reveal patterns you did not know to ask about:
Odd regions being used
Strange SKUs
Forgotten subscriptions
Duplicate AKS clusters
Expensive dev environments
Ownerless resource groups
Public IPs everywhere
Legacy classic resources
Weird naming conventions
Resources outside policy
Storage accounts with inconsistent security settings
That discovery phase alone can be valuable.
The strongest use cases I would build first
I would start with these because they are practical and likely to produce immediate value:
Stale compute report
VMs stopped/deallocated for 30+ days, unattached disks, old snapshots, idle public IPs.
AKS estate report
Cluster versions, node pool sizes, upgrade risk, public/private API server, system/user pools, region, owner, cost.
Storage risk and growth report
Public access settings, replication type, encryption, private endpoints, age, growth, lifecycle policy presence.
Retirement/deprecation impact view
Service Health retirement events joined to actual resources, owners, environments, and cost.
Cost anomaly explainer
“What changed around the time spend increased?”
Owner and tag hygiene
Missing owner, invalid cost centre, missing environment, inconsistent app naming.
Public exposure map
Public IPs, load balancers, app gateways, front doors, exposed NSG rules, public storage, public databases.
Subscription/team scorecards
Trend over time, not just current score.
My honest caveat
Do not try to mirror all of Azure. That becomes endless.
The smart version is:

Broad shallow scan of everything
+
Deep collectors for important resource types
+
Historical snapshots
+
Rules and derived findings
+
A dashboard over the findings
The first version does not need to be huge. Even a daily snapshot of Resource Graph plus Advisor, Service Health, cost, VM power state, AKS details, and storage account config would already be useful.
My overall take
Yes, it is worth doing.
The most valuable thing would be the historical, joined, opinionated view of the estate. Azure already has portals for individual concerns. What is harder to get is a single place that says:

What exists, who owns it, what changed, what costs money, what is risky, what is stale, what is about to break, and what should we do first?
That is exactly the kind of system that can produce analysis which is hard to get otherwise.
create a file of this that I can copy to a 'real' 

